doc: Add background information on git-gc modes of operations (#47798)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/background-information/git_gc.md

# Git GC and its modes of operations in Sourcegraph

> `git-gc` is git's in-built mechanism to optimise git objects in a repository. Sourcegraph runs `git gc` in `gitserver` to clean up cruft in git repos, sometimes when executing git commands and other times as part of regular clean up jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`git-gc` is git's built-in mechanism to optimise git objects in a repository. Sourcegraph runs `git gc` in `gitserver` to clean up cruft in git repos, sometimes when executing git commands and other times as part of regular clean up jobs.
```

I think this one is used more frequently :)

> We have two possible modes of operation outside of git's default behaviour (more on it later):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have three possible modes of operation. Two of them circumvent git's default behaviour (more on it later):
```

I think it's best to up-front make it clear that there's 3 modes. Otherwise things get confusing real fast :)

1. If `SRC_ENABLE_GC_AUTO` is set to `true` and `SRC_ENABLE_SG_MAINTENANCE` is `false`, then we run `git gc --auto` with the value of `gc.auto` set to `1`. This tells `git gc --auto` to pack all loose objects if the number of these objects is greater than `1`.
2. But if the opposite is true, that is `SRC_ENABLE_GC_AUTO` is set to `false` while `SRC_ENABLE_SG_MAINTENANCE` is `true` then we run `sg maintenance` and `git prune`. In this mode `gc.auto` is set to `0` which effectively disables automatic packing of loose objects along with any other heuristics that `git gc --auto` keeps an eye out to decide if it should run or not.

The frequency of both these modes of operation is controlled by an environment variable `SRC_REPOS_JANITOR_INTERVAL` - which is set to 1 minute by default. But if the job itself takes longer than the interval, then we ensure to wait for it to finish and then wait for the interval as determined by the environment variable to expire before launching a new iteration of that job.

> However the third and final mode of operation is git's default behaviour and is not controlled by Sourcegraph. The value of `SRC_REPOS_JANITOR_INTERVAL` has no effect on its frequency.

Reviewer: I think we should move the third option in a numbered list so that `We have three possible modes of operation` maps to the number of items in the list, WDYT?

Author: Yes I thought about it, which is why I had initially written `We have two possible modes of operation` but in review it made sense to have it as `three possible modes` to prevent confusion.

With the paragraph about `The frequency of both these modes of operation is controlled by...`  coming into the picture it felt unnatural to continue a third list item. Moving item 3 above this breaks the flow established in this paragraph. And will need to restructure this in a bigger way.

I think we can keep it as is, since we clarify:

`However the third and final mode of operation...`

> However the third and final mode of operation is git's default behaviour which is not controlled by Sourcegraph and the value of `SRC_REPOS_JANITOR_INTERVAL` has no effect on its frequency.

Reviewer: Maybe it is worth pulling this into a numbered list, so that `We have three possible modes of operation` maps with a number of items in the list itself?

Author: The `(more on it later)` is a hint that the third item will come a bit later outside of this list of items. :D
